.TH GPT-PO-TRANSLATOR 1 "March 2025" "Version 1.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
gpt-po-translator \- CLI tool for translating .po files using AI models

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gpt-po-translator
[\fB--folder\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fB--lang\fR \fIcodes\fR] [\fIoptions\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
gpt-po-translator is a command-line tool designed to translate gettext (.po) files 
using AI-powered translation models from OpenAI, Anthropic, and DeepSeek.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--folder\fR \fIpath\fR
Path to the directory containing .po files (required).
.TP
\fB--lang\fR \fIcodes\fR
Comma-separated target language codes (e.g., de, fr) (required).
.TP
\fB--detail-lang\fR \fInames\fR
Full language names corresponding to language codes (e.g., "German,French").
.TP
\fB--fuzzy\fR
Remove fuzzy entries before processing.
.TP
\fB--bulk\fR
Enable bulk translation mode.
.TP
\fB--bulksize\fR \fIsize\fR
Specify the number of entries per batch in bulk mode (default: 50).
.TP
\fB--api_key\fR \fIkey\fR
API key for translation (can also be provided via an environment variable).
.TP
\fB--provider\fR \fIname\fR
Choose an AI provider: openai, anthropic, deepseek.
.TP
\fB--model\fR \fIname\fR
Specify the translation model (default varies by provider).
.TP
\fB--list-models\fR
List available models for the selected provider and exit.
.TP
\fB--folder-language\fR
Infer the language from the folder structure.
.TP
\fB--version\fR
Show program version and exit.
.TP
\fB-h, --help\fR
Show this help message and exit.

.SH EXAMPLES
Translate .po files from the "locales" directory into German and French using bulk mode:

.B gpt-po-translator --folder ./locales --lang de,fr --bulk --bulksize 40 --folder-language

List available models for OpenAI:

.B gpt-po-translator --provider openai --list-models

.SH AUTHOR
Bram Mittendorff <bram@pescheck.io>

.SH LICENSE
MIT License

.SH SEE ALSO
gettext(1)
